
# The C and C++ Compilation Process:
The compilation is the process which converts the program written in human readable language like C, C++ etc into a machine code, directly understood by the CPU. 
## It has 4 stage to convert source file into executable file:-

```bash
1. Preprocessor
2. Compiler
3. Assembler
4. Linker  
```

## 1. Preprocessor:
The Preprocessor convert .c or .cpp extensions file into .i file.Preprocessor programs provide preprocessors directives which tell the compiler to preprocess the source code before compiling.
for example: #define,#inlcude , etc.
## Example-
## Source File - Before Preprocessing:-
```C++
#include <std/bitsc++.h>
#include<iostream> 
#define size 5 

int main()
{
    int i = 0;

    for(i = 0; i < size; i++)
      cout<<"Hello World\n";

    return 0;
}

```
## After Preprocessing :-
```c++
/* origianl code of std/BitsC++.h*/   //replaced by preprocessor 

int main()
{
    int i = 0;

    for(i = 0; i < 5; i++)    //size will be replaced by 5 
    cout<<"Hello World\n"<<;

    return 0;
}
```
When our program will be preprocessed so it will be replace the MACROS into actual value.

## Compiler:
The code which is expanded by the preprocessor is passed to the compiler.  The C or C++ compiler converts the pre-processed code into assembly code.

## Assembler:
The assembler creates object code.The name of the object file generated by the assembler is the same as the source file.
```C++
If the name of the source file is 'Prog.c', then the name of the object file would be 'prog.obj'.
```
## Linker: 

The main working of the linker is to combine the object code of library files with the object code of our program. The output of the linker is the executable file. The name of the executable file is the same as the source file but differs only in their extensions. It uses the .exe file but in UNIX it converts into .out file.

## Example-
```C++
if we are using  cout<<  ;function in a program, then the linker adds its associated code in an output file.

```
